Add zero to hero doc for EC CLI (#48)
enterprise-contract/user-guide: modules/ROOT/pages/zero-to-hero.adoc

a build system. This document assumes you do not have such an image. It walks you through the
process of signing and attestating an image, then how to use EC to validate those operations.

== Required Tooling

Before starting, the following tooling is required:

* https://github.com/sigstore/cosign#installation[cosign]
* https://enterprisecontract.dev/docs/user-guide/main/cli.html[ec cli]
* https://github.com/containers/skopeo[skopeo] or
  https://github.com/google/go-containerregistry/tree/main/cmd/crane[crane]
* https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/[docker] or https://podman.io/[podman] (optional)

== Container Repository

During this guide, image signatures and attestations will be pushed to the container repository
where the image resides. Using a local registry is ideal for testing purposes. If you have a
container runtime installed, e.g. https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/[docker] or
https://podman.io/[podman], you can start one with ease:

[.console-input]
[source, bash]
----
docker run -it -d -p 5000:5000 --restart=always --name registry registry:2
# or with podman:

> # podman run -it -d -p 5000:5000 --restart=always --name registry registry:2

Reviewer: Consider having both commands listed separately. That way the user can copy/paste which one they would like to use.

Author: I had it like that originally, but then I realized that folks usually just copy and paste things when it comes to guides like this. I wanted to avoid someone accidentally running both commands.

Reviewer: Makes sense.

----

Alternatively, if you have access to a repository in an existing registry, e.g. quay.io or
docker.io, then you can just use that.

> Set the environment variable `REPOSITORY` accordingly:

Reviewer: Remove "environment" or add `export` to `export REPOSITORY`

Author: Why?

`FOO=BAR` is perfectly valid way of setting an environment variable. Without `export`, it just means that sub-processes won't get it, just the shell which is exactly what we want.

Reviewer: I didn't think it was technically an **environment** variable if you didn't export.

Reviewer: I'm not sure why github left the above comment twice.

Author: Actually, you're right. I think the right term here is a shell variable. I'll change it to just say variable as you suggested. Thank you for catching this. I learned something new.

Author: Went with "shell variable".

# or with skopeo:
# skopeo copy docker://quay.io/enterprise-contract/ec-cli:latest \
#  "docker://$REPOSITORY:latest" --dest-tls-verify=false
# NOTE: Only set `--dest-tls-verify=false` if you are using a local registry.
----

== Generate Signining Key

In order to sign and attest the image, we need a signing key.

[.console-input]
[source, bash]
----
cosign generate-key-pair
----

Enter a new password for the key-pair on the password prompt. For the purpose of this guide, use
something memorable like `top-secret`. Otherwise, always use a strong secret password.

The command should generate two files in the currently working directory. `cosign.pub` is the public
key. We will use this later during verification. This can, and should, be distributed freely to
anyone that may want to verify the image. `cosign.key` is the private key. This is used for signing
content. Treat this like the password you provided. No one other than the entity responsible for
singing and attestating images should have access to this.

== Signing the Image

We use cosign to sign our image.

[.console-input]
[source, bash]
----
cosign sign --key cosign.key $REPOSITORY:latest
----

> Enter the key-pair password and `y` to upload a transaction record to Rekor.

Reviewer: Maybe link to Rekor in case the user hasn't heard of it? https://docs.sigstore.dev/logging/overview/

= Zero to Hero

The Enterprise Contract can be used to verify an image that has already been signed and attested by

> a build system. This document assumes you do not have such an image. It walks you through the

Author: I went with:

> The Enterprise Contract can be used to validate a software artifact, e.g. a container image, that has already been signed and attested. This document assumes you do not have such an artifact. It walks you through the process of signing and attesting a container image, then how to use EC to validate those operations.

> process of signing and attestating an image, then how to use EC to validate those operations.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps...

```suggestion
process of signing and attesting a container image, then how to use EC to validate those operations.
```

Author: "attestating"... :facepalm:

== Required Tooling

Before starting, the following tooling is required:

* https://github.com/sigstore/cosign#installation[cosign]
* https://enterprisecontract.dev/docs/user-guide/main/cli.html[ec cli]
* https://github.com/containers/skopeo[skopeo] or
  https://github.com/google/go-containerregistry/tree/main/cmd/crane[crane]
* https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/[docker] or https://podman.io/[podman] (optional)

== Container Repository

During this guide, image signatures and attestations will be pushed to the container repository
where the image resides. Using a local registry is ideal for testing purposes. If you have a
container runtime installed, e.g. https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/[docker] or
https://podman.io/[podman], you can start one with ease:

> [.console-input]

Reviewer 2: I'm 99,99% sure we don't need this
```suggestion
```

Author: I like those odds. Let's find out!

[.console-input]
[source, bash]
----
crane copy quay.io/enterprise-contract/ec-cli:latest "$REPOSITORY:latest"
# or with skopeo:
# skopeo copy docker://quay.io/enterprise-contract/ec-cli:latest \
#  "docker://$REPOSITORY:latest" --dest-tls-verify=false
# NOTE: Only set `--dest-tls-verify=false` if you are using a local registry.
----

== Generate Signining Key

In order to sign and attest the image, we need a signing key.

[.console-input]
[source, bash]
----
cosign generate-key-pair
----

Enter a new password for the key-pair on the password prompt. For the purpose of this guide, use
something memorable like `top-secret`. Otherwise, always use a strong secret password.

The command should generate two files in the currently working directory. `cosign.pub` is the public
key. We will use this later during verification. This can, and should, be distributed freely to
anyone that may want to verify the image. `cosign.key` is the private key. This is used for signing
content. Treat this like the password you provided. No one other than the entity responsible for
singing and attestating images should have access to this.

> 

Reviewer 2: Perhaps not needed at this level, but could be mentioned...

```suggestion

NOTE: For production usage a long-term use private key would managed using Hardware Security Module (HSM), or short-term use keys would be used with the help of a Certificate Authority such as https://docs.sigstore.dev/certificate_authority/overview/[Fulcio].

```

Author: I think that will be distracting for someone new to all this.

== Signing the Image

> We use cosign to sign our image.

Reviewer 2: I like to put commands in code blocks

```suggestion
We use `cosign` to sign our image.
```

[.console-input]
[source, bash]
----
cosign sign --key cosign.key $REPOSITORY:latest
----

Enter the key-pair password and `y` to upload a transaction record to
https://docs.sigstore.dev/logging/overview/[Rekor].

> 

Reviewer 2: Also might not be needed, but could be helpful
```suggestion

NOTE: By default `cosign` uses public services managed by the Sigstore project. Here a public instance of https://docs.sigstore.dev/logging/overview/[Rekor] will be used hosted at https://rekor.sigstore.dev/. If you are maintaining a private instance of Rekor `cosign` can be configured to use it using the `--rekor-url` parameter.

```

Author: Yeah, this is good info, but I don't think it belongs here.

== Attesting the Image

Next, let's use cosign again to associate a SLSA Provenance attestion to the image.

> Usually, the build system responsible for building the container image is also responsible for

Reviewer 2: Gotta hit those SEO keywords...

```suggestion
Usually, the software delivery service responsible for building the container image is also responsible for
```

providing the SLSA Provenance attestation. Here, we will use an example one instead.

First, create the content of the SLSA Provenance:

[.console-input]
[source, bash]
----
echo '{
  "builder": {
    "id": "https://localhost/dummy-id"
  },
  "buildType": "https://localhost/dummy-type",
  "invocation": {},
  "buildConfig": {},
  "metadata": {
    "buildStartedOn": "2023-09-25T16:26:44Z",
    "buildFinishedOn": "2023-09-25T16:28:59Z",
    "completeness": {
      "parameters": false,
      "environment": false,
      "materials": false
    },
    "reproducible": false
  },
  "materials": []
}
' > predicate.json
----

Now, create an attestation and attach it to the container image.

[.console-input]
[source, bash]
----
cosign attest --predicate predicate.json --type slsaprovenance --key cosign.key "$REPOSITORY:latest"
----

> As done while signing the image, enter the key-pair password and `y` to upload a transaction record

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All done with signing the image, enter the key-pair password and `y` to upload a transaction record
```
Maybe?

Author: This edit doesn't make sense to me, but what I wrote is probably confusing. I meant to say here that now we do the same thing we did when we ran the cosign sign command.

Reviewer: You could say something like in the "signing image step", but honestly now that you explained it it makes a lot more sense.

Author: Alright. I'll leave it as is then.

> to Rekor.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps...

```suggestion
to the public instance of Rekor hosted by the Sigstore project.
```

Author: I like it! Added links to both Rekor and Sigstore. Also changed the second time I mention Rekor to say: 

> ... to the same Rekor instance.

== Quick Check

At this point, the command `cosign tree` should detect the image has one signature and one
attestation.

[.console-input]
[source, bash]
----
$ cosign tree "$REPOSITORY:latest"
📦 Supply Chain Security Related artifacts for an image: localhost:5000/ec-zero-to-hero:latest
└── 💾 Attestations for an image tag: localhost:5000/ec-zero-to-hero:sha256-b5430d3d447434c795a508036e5046e41c009039be5b3f656f121c2426500d1e.att
   └── 🍒 sha256:ad5ee60aedd8ada59a559cd2e4b83ccc9bd1aaa97a8b48ba151d728afec31bbc
└── 🔐 Signatures for an image tag: localhost:5000/ec-zero-to-hero:sha256-b5430d3d447434c795a508036e5046e41c009039be5b3f656f121c2426500d1e.sig
   └── 🍒 sha256:09dc4217ce34b7db29acb9e914067db2092e8dfbf4c7603857114d9b2ac7f0ab

----

We are ready to verify the image with the Enterprise Contract CLI!

== Basic Verification

The most basic verification that can be done with the EC cli is to verify the image has a signature
and a SLSA Provenance attestation matching a given public key.

[.console-input]
[source, bash]
----

> ec validate image --public-key cosign.pub --image "$REPOSITORY:latest" --policy ''

Reviewer 2: Kinda ugly that we need to provide `''` for `--policy`, should we change the [default](https://github.com/enterprise-contract/ec-cli/blob/439d1cc00a425255cb08a4a0e54d05ebdb0a8a9c/cmd/validate/image.go#L70)? Not sure if anyone relies on that. We could also have a `$HOME/.ec/config` with the current default in the image used in RHTAP...

Author: Agree. Filed https://github.com/enterprise-contract/ec-cli/issues/1039
